# Agent exports

[Under development]{.wysiwyg-color-red}

Through <https://github.com/waysact/evergiving/issues/4867> we released
Agent Exports which were basically the fundraiser export but
find/replace with agent. Please make this available to Fundraiser and
Timesheet exports / API / EBIC

Through <https://github.com/waysact/evergiving/issues/6178> we released
sources for Agent Hours, Call Time, Wait Time and Team Hours. 

Originally agent exports were only available to create / run by Super
Admins but Admin Operations can now access these exports:

-   As an Admin Ops user with permissions to access the Export section
    (fundraisers) please give me access to exportBuilders/agent.
-   As an Admin Ops user with read and write permissions to access the
    Call Center section please give me access to
    exportBuilders/agent.manual export feature at callCenter/agents

 

  record_source            record_type                  interaction_type        Source Label
  ------------------------ ---------------------------- ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  record_source_sd         record_type_pledge           call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to recurring donations from social distancing
  record_source_sd         record_type_pledge_one_off   call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to one off donations from social distancing
  record_source_f2f        record_type_pledge           call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to recurring donations from face to face
  record_source_f2f        record_type_pledge_one_off   call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to one off donations from face to face
  record_source_imported   record_type_pledge           call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to recurring donation from lead import
  record_source_imported   record_type_pledge_one_off   call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to one off donation from lead import
  record_source_digital    record_type_pledge           call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to recurring donation from digital
  record_source_digital    record_type_pledge_one_off   call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to one off donation from digital
  `any`                    record_type_pledge           call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to recurring donation total
  `any`                    record_type_pledge_one_off   call_center_converted   Number of converted leads to one off donation total
  `any`                    `any`                        call_center_converted   Number of converted leads total

 

Through <https://github.com/waysact/evergiving/issues/7319> we prevented
exports returning duplicate rows and enable javascript to make the
following calculations in the agent exports:

[ ]{.handle} Attempts - count of call attempts made in that time period

[ ]{.handle} Attempts Per Hour - count of call attempts made in that
time period per sum of (pause+preview+dial+talk+wrap)

[ ]{.handle} Contacts - count of records with call status = complete
(excluding where final call outcome = Max Call Attempts, Not Qualified,
Wrong Number, Invalid Phone Number) in that time period.

[ ]{.handle} Contacts Per Hour - count of records with call status =
complete (excluding where final call outcome = Max Call Attempts, Not
Qualified, Wrong Number, Invalid Phone Number) in that time period per
sum of activity log hours for that time period

[ ]{.handle} Conversions - count of records converted from lead to
pledge in that time period (will use created date so need to specify
record type)

[ ]{.handle} Conversions Per Hour - count of records converted from lead
to pledge in that time period per sum of activity log hours for that
time period

[ ]{.handle} Conversion Rate - (unique records converted from lead to
pledge in that time period)/(count of unique records with call status =
complete (excluding where final call outcome = Max Call Attempts, Not
Qualified, Wrong Number, Invalid Phone Number) in time period)\*100

[ ]{.handle} Total Amount - sum of amount for records converted from
lead to pledge in that time period

[ ]{.handle} Average Amount - average of amount for records converted
from lead to pledge in that time
