# CSV - Excel - Saving Accented Characters

**[Importing modified csv files into other systems\
]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}**

If customers need to import modified Excel files containing accented
characters (French, German, etc) into their system and they\'re using
Microsoft Excel to create their `CSV` file, they may run into an issue.
When you\'re using accented characters (such as é, ç, ü, etc.) -
Microsoft Excel does not generate a `UTF-8` compliant`CSV` file. To
resolve this issue, please do the following:

-   Save the Excel file as a `CSV` file.
-   Open the `CSV` file generated by Excel using another software which
    can create `UTF-8` compliant `CSV` files.

#### [](https://github.com/waysact/support-documentation/blob/master/External/CSV%20-%20Excel%20-%20Saving%20Accented%20Characters.md#windows){#user-content-windows .anchor}Windows

-   Open the file using Notepad.
-   Click \"File \> Save As\".
-   In the dialog window that appears - select \"UTF-8\" from the
    \"Encoding\" field. Then click \"Save\".

#### [](https://github.com/waysact/support-documentation/blob/master/External/CSV%20-%20Excel%20-%20Saving%20Accented%20Characters.md#mac){#user-content-mac .anchor}Mac

-   Use either the \"Numbers\" application, or the free
    [LibreOffice](http://www.libreoffice.org/), instead of Excel.
-   Click \"File \> Save As\".
-   In the dialog window that appears - select \"UTF-8\" from the
    \"Encoding\" field. Then click \"Save\".

Your saved file will be ready to import into your `UTF-8` compliant
database system.

**[Excel - Displaying Accented Characters]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}**

Evergiving creates CSV files that are compliant with the UTF-8 standard.
We do this to ensure that it works well for our customers using
different operating systems and different software packages to process
these CSV files. If you use Microsoft Excel to open the CSV files,
everything works fine when the file contains just English characters.
However, you may run into an issue when your CSV file also contains
non-English characters (such as é, ç, ü, etc): Microsoft Excel is unable
to properly display UTF-8 compliant CSV files when they contain
non-English characters.

To resolve this issue, please do the following after exporting the CSV
file from Evergiving.

On a Windows machine:\
*Method 1*\
On a Windows computer, open the CSV file using Notepad.\
Click \"File \> Save As\".\
In the dialog window that appears - select \"ANSI\" from the
\"Encoding\" field. Then click \"Save\".\
That\'s all! Open this new CSV file using Excel - your non-English
characters should be displayed properly.

*Method 2*\
On a Windows computer, click \"File \> New\" in Excel.\
Click \"Data\" tab.\
Then click \"From Text\" option. Select the CSV you file you exported
from Evergiving.\
Excel will display \"Text Import Wizard\". In step-1 of this wizard:
Select \"Delimited\" radiobutton.\
In \"File origin\" field - select \"65001 : Unicode (UTF-8)\". Click
\"Next \>\" button.\
In step-2 of this wizard: Select \"Comma\" checkbox. Click \"Finish\"
button.\
In the dialog window that appears - click \"OK\" button.

Excel will display your CSV file - including non-English characters -
properly.

*On a Mac:*\
You should use either the \"Numbers\" application, or the free
LibreOffice, instead of Excel.

**[ ]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}**

[ ]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}
