# Field Users

Only Fundraisers can access the Face to Face Fundraising form to sign up
new donors. The exception is the only dual user that exists in
Evergiving - the Fundraiser + Campaign Manager user.

 

For the Fundraiser + Campaign Manager user:

\- if logged into waysact.me to access the Campaign Manager profile
click the gear icon in the top right and select Admin. That will take
you to the Campaign Manager profile in waysact.me to set up teams,
fundraisers and view Dashboards/pledges etc. To get back to the
Fundraiser profile, click \"Fundraiser Dashboard\" in the tabs.

\- if logged into capture.evergiving.com to access the Campaign Manager
profile click the gear icon in the top right and select Admin. That will
take you to the Campaign Manager profile in manage.evergiving.com to set
up teams, fundraisers and view Dashboards/pledges etc. To get back to
the Fundraiser profile, click the green form button in the top left of
the screen <https://github.com/waysact/evergiving/issues/7416>

 

Fundraisers and Campaign Managers can be given access to Evergiving
Dashboards but have the Fundraiser Dashboards as their main Dashboards.
Here they can see their statistics (configurable by account) as well as
Last 3 Pledges (can be hidden at an account level) and Unsent Pledges.
We automatically resend unsent pledges via
<https://github.com/waysact/evergiving/issues/8341>

 

## [Origin verification instead of CSRF validation]{.js-issue-title .markdown-title} {#origin-verification-instead-of-csrf-validation .gh-header-title .mb-2 .lh-condensed .f1 .mr-0 .flex-auto .wb-break-word}

We have a new feature
<https://github.com/waysact/evergiving/issues/8296> under launch darkly
