# Importing data and updating pledges

After pledges have been submitted, they can be changed individually or
by bulk upload of data from another system- from the Pledges tab, you
can import information such as updated pledge data, payment or
cancellation information, or external reference numbers. 

**Importing updated pledge data (from a call centre)**

Yes, you will need to prepare a .csv file with the updated pledge data.
The format for the file must be the same as the format when the pledge
is exported using "[Export low
security](https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/article_attachments/201323024/Standard_low_security_export.xlsx)".
Go to import data on the Pledge tab and Import Updated Pledge Data.
Browse for the file, preview it to check it looks ok and press save. The
details of the pledge will be updated and if you have included a
Validation Outcome, the pledge status will change to reflect the correct
outcome.

Below is a workflow process to explain how to export and import pledge
data from an external source like a phone provider with automated change
to status when using the Validation Outcomes.

 

![](https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/article_attachments/200909710/Screen_Shot_2014-06-26_at_17.08.42.png)

**Importing Cancellations**

From the Pledges tab, click \'Import data\' and then in the \'Import
cancellations\' section, browse for the file on your computer. The data
should be in the following format: [Pledge ID, Date of Cancellation,
Reason for
Cancellation](https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/article_attachments/201241640/Cancellations_Made_Import).
Preview it to check it looks correct and press \'Save\' to start the
import. 

The date and reason for the cancellation will be automatically recorded
against the correct pledge and the status will change to Cancelled.

Please N.B. any new reasons you import will simply add to the list of
cancellation reasons recorded in your account. We strongly recommend
restricting the reasons to simply \'Actively Canceled\' (the supporter
contacted the charity and requested their donation stop); and
\'Passively Canceled\' (the supporter is considered canceled due to
failed delinquency procedures and a period of time without payment).

**Importing Payments**

From the Pledges tab, click \'Import data\' and then in the \'Import
payments\' section, browse for the file on your computer. The data
should be in the following format: [Pledge ID, Date of Payment, Amount
of
Payment](https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/article_attachments/201241630/Payments_Made_Import).
Preview it to check it looks correct and press \'Save\' to start the
import.

The date and payment amount will be automatically recorded against the
correct pledge and will sum to the amount on the Fundraiser's dashboard
logs.

**Appending external reference numbers[\
]{.wysiwyg-underline}**

From the Pledges tab, click \'Import data\' and then in the \'Append
external reference number\' section, browse for the file on your
computer. The data should be in the following format: First Name \| Last
Name \| Pledge ID \| External reference number. Preview it to check it
looks correct and press \'Save\' to start the import.
