# Interactions

Interactions were developed as a part of the Track n Snap app to allow
Fundraisers to record all interactions they have with potential donors
who don\'t end up signing up (Stop attempt, Conversation no sale etc).

The master list of Interactions are found in Account -\> Interaction
Settings and on this page the Interactions can be turned on so they
appear for Fundraisers and also customised if a label change is needed.
There is a set of interactions for each Method of Fundraising (Street,
Shopping Mall etc). The intention was that after a donor walked away
without donating, the Fundraiser would press the appropriate interaction
and that data is saved under Territories -\> Interactions in Evergiving
and can be viewed in table format or map view. It can give useful
insights into the donors not signing up.

When setting up a team intending on using Interactions, you need to make
sure you are

Track n Snap is iOS only and is now broken and not working, so during
covid we moved a basic form of interactions onto the Fundraiser
Dashboard so they could essentially clock in to locations. Instead of
using the iPad GPS like in Track n Snap, the Fundraisers type their
location into the Dashboard and then select the appropriate Interaction.
There is also a \"Current address\" option Fundraisers can select from
their Dashboard which saves the latitude/longitude of the Fundraiser\'s
current location.

Where a Team Location has been added the team, the Fundraiser will also
see that location as an option in the drop list. Where there is a Team
Location that has no coordinates, the Fundraiser will see the option to
save their current co-ordinates against the team location.

![Interactions_1.png](https://support.waysact.com/hc/article_attachments/4413635495951/Interactions_1.png)

Â 

## **Interactions in the exports**

There is a source for Interactions but some customers are using
interactions as a timesheet for checking in and out each day with the
\'Arrive at Site\' and \'Leave Site\' interactions:

**Time of first interaction**

    var interactions = pledge.interactions.sort(function(lhs, rhs) {
    return Date.parse(lhs.created_at) - Date.parse(rhs.created_at);
    });
    if (interactions.length > 0) {
    return moment.utc(interactions[0].created_at).tz('Australia/Brisbane').toISOString();
    } else {
    return null;
    }

**Time of last interaction**

    var interactions = pledge.interactions.sort(function(lhs, rhs) {
    return Date.parse(lhs.created_at) - Date.parse(rhs.created_at);
    });
    if (interactions.length > 0) {
    return moment.utc(interactions[interactions.length - 1].created_at).tz('Australia/Brisbane').toISOString();
    } else {
    return null;
    }
