# Validation Outcomes

Validation Outcomes are simply labels to describe the outcome of the
validation process. They show why a pledge is either set to a particular
pledge status. Validation Outcomes are also a way of changing a pledge
status.\
Each customer creates their own Validation Outcomes in Evergiving, based
on their business needs - most customers will have a list of 10-20
Validation Outcomes that is completely exhaustive of all the outcomes of
their typical validation workflows.\
The \'Contact Made\' field may be used to record whether contact was
made with the donor. You can set each Validation Outcome up to
automatically change the Contact Made to Yes or No, or to leave it
unchanged (note - the Contact Made field is also available outside of
the Validation Outcome workflow and can be manually completed from
within the edit pledge screen).

## **Viewing / Creating / Editing Existing Validation Outcomes**

Head to the Donors section and then to the Validation Outcome page. Here
you will see a list of outcomes, the automated changes each outcome will
trigger for a Pledge, and whether there is an automated Contact Made
change associated with that outcome. In Evergiving you can use the
filter to see which outcomes are restricted to specific campaigns.

To add a new Validation Outcome click on the \'Add Outcome\' button.
Enter the required details and click the \'Create Validation Outcome\'
button.

To edit a validation outcome, click the Edit symbol next to the
Validation Outcome. Please note, if you change the name of a validation
outcome it will update the outcome on all pledges that have this outcome
already applied.

To delete a validation outcome, click the Delete symbol next to the
Validation Outcome. Please note, if you delete a validation outcome it
will remove the outcome from all pledges that have this outcome already
applied. We are not able to restore the deleted outcomes from pledges so
use caution\
when deleting an outcome.

## **Using Validation Outcomes to change a pledge status.**

Besides a few unique workflows involving cash payments (i.e. a payment
type of Other where a \"Other payment type validation outcome\" has been
applied in the campaign setup) or instant payments (where the
Transaction approved/Transaction declined/Transaction non outcomes have
been applied in the campaign setup), all new pledges are automatically
saved with a Status of Pending. This means they are pending, awaiting
the result of a validation workflow being applied to them.

The result of an interaction in a validation workflow typically falls in
to three categories, the pledge is either OK, not OK, or something
else\*. Evergiving calls these \'Status\' and labels them as follows:\
\'Approved\', \'Invalid\' and \'Alien\'.

\* Something else (Alien) usually indicates the donor does not meet
minimum criteria for quality required for your face to face fundraising
campaign. It\'s likely this donor will never have their payments
transacted but they are neither Invalid nor Approved from the
fundraiser\'s perspective (statuses typically used to reward or
otherwise).

**Note -** Cancelled is also a legitimate pledge status but you can only
set a pledge to cancelled when you use Evergiving\'s cancellation
feature (see
<https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/articles/360004236875-Importing-pledge-updates-payments-cancellations>).
