# Zapier

<div>

Do you want to integrate Evergiving with 5,000+ applications?

</div>

<div>

In a few clicks you can now connect Evergiving to Zapier with easily
customised payloads for all sorts of great reasons. Zapier.com is a tool
that connects web applications together. You can do lots of things with
it:

</div>

-   When a pledge is created, send an SMS.
-   When a pledge is approved, post to Teams, Slack or even Facebook
    pages - *\"Woohoo! 🎉 Another \$25 a month is going to support
    UNICEF. Well done Jo!\"*
-   At the end of the day, create the donor in your CRM, via their API.
    If it works with Zapier, it\'ll now work with Evergiving.
-   The day after a donor signs up, call them from your external Call
    Center provider.
-   When a donor under 35 years old signs up, send the donor an invite
    to Instagram.
-   \... or any other action like send them a survey, an email from
    mailchimp, or just create a row in a spreadsheet.

<div>

**How does it work?**

</div>

1.  In Zapier, create a Zap, select *Webhooks by Zapier* and \'Catch Raw
    Hook\'. Click *Continue* to get a Catch Hook URL.
2.  In Evergiving create a pledge export, select *Output Type* =
    \'Webhooks\'; *Target* = \"Zapier\", and add the Catch Hook URL.
3.  Customise the data sent to Zapier for the app you\'re integrating
    with.
4.  a\) \'*Run Now*\'; or b) customise when/how often and under what
    conditions data is sent. i.e. send new approved pledges at 9am,
    11am, 1pm, 3pm, 5pm:

 
