# Facebook

For more information see <https://www.evergiving.com/facebook/>

Connect Evergiving to your Facebook page or anywhere else you install
Messenger. Connecting Evergiving to the Messenger platform allows
fundraisers to convert a visitor to your page to a donor via a phone
call, in just a few clicks. Connecting Evergiving to your Facebook
Messenger can be a standalone fundraising strategy, or a complementary
strategy for your existing campaigns. It can add an extra revenue
generating activity for welcome callers, or it can generate extra leads
for an existing phone acquisition campaign.

Fundraisers that normally do face to face and are doing stewardship
calls can still be doing acquisition at the same time - really
broadening their skills and job satisfaction. It can even be used in a
two step process. Your face to face fundraisers can direct anyone they
don\'t sign up to the Facebook page, where trained fundraisers are there
to chat to them on their way home. It might even be them on their
afternoon shift!

Connecting Evergiving to the Messenger platform is easy. You can deploy
a fully functional Messenger experience within a few minutes.

1\) Connect Evergiving to your Facebook page

A user with admin ops privileges can easily connect your campaign to
your Facebook page and Messenger. Head to Campaigns › General Settings ›
Connect a Facebook Page. Make sure you're logged in to Facebook as a
page Admin and click \'Continue with Facebook\'

2\) When a visitor responds to Messenger on your page an agent can reply
and chat live

Your agent will see the Facebook Messenger chat from within Evergiving
and can respond in real time.

3\) Macros send pre-built replies and ask for a phone number

You can create your own macros for your Agents from within Evergiving.

One click sends the phone number to Evergiving and then one more click
creates a lead

4\) An agent takes their details over the phone.

Donor details are entered in a PCI Level 1 system.

When the Agent calls their lead, the call will be recorded. They can
pause the recording, or stop recording. The credit card button switches
the lead to our app, which asks the lead to enter their credit card
details, and then returns the Agent to the call.

5\) Payment is taken, welcome email and SMS is automatically sent,
recording is securely stored.

Set up SMS templates for your agents in the Campaigns section
https://manage.evergiving.com/en-AU/notification-templates/sms
