# Finding Missing Pledges

Pledges can appear to go missing for a variety of reasons, including
poor internet connectivity, human error and team configuration issues.
If you can\'t locate a pledge then working through the following
questions could help you to find and recover it.

 

[**First question - did the fundraiser submit the
pledge?**]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}

[It\'s possible that the fundraiser filled out the form with the
donor\'s details but then, for whatever reason, didn\'t actually submit
the pledge.]{.wysiwyg-color-black}

[You can check if this has happened by asking the fundraiser to view the
form on the same iPad as they were using before. If they forgot to
submit the pledge then the fields will still be populated with the
donor\'s details.]{.wysiwyg-color-black}

[If this is the case then you can recover the pledge simply pressing the
\'Save\' button on the final page of the form.]{.wysiwyg-color-black}

 

[**Second question - is the pledge stored locally on the
iPad?**]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}

[Some areas have patchy or non-existent mobile data coverage. Waysact is
able to store pledges locally on the iPad when an internet connection
isn\'t available so they can be uploaded later.]{.wysiwyg-color-black}

[You can check if there are any pledges stored on the iPad from within
the \'Fundraiser Dashboard\' - any pledges that are stored locally will
be shown in the \'Un-sent pledges\' list.]{.wysiwyg-color-black}

[![](https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/article_attachments/202847154/Unsent_Pledges.png)]{.wysiwyg-color-black}

[You can recover pledges from this list it by ensuring that the iPad has
a good internet connection and then pressing the \'Re-send\' button on
the \'Fundraiser Dashboard\'.]{.wysiwyg-color-black}

 

[**Final question - is the pledge waiting in a
queue?**]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}

In some cases it might not be possible for the system to process a
pledge due to an incorrectly set up team or fundraiser. If this happens
the pledge will be put into a queue until the problem is corrected.

You can view all of the queued pledges in your account by going to the
\'Pledges\' tab in the administration interface and then clicking on the
\'Queued Pledges\' button:

![](https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/article_attachments/202904580/Getting_To_Queued_Pledges.png)

To recover a pledge from the queue click on the \'Action Required\'
link:

![](https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/article_attachments/202847104/Action_Needed.png)

You will then be prompted for more information. Choose the most
appropriate action and then click on \'Apply\'. The pledge will then be
processed:

![](https://support.waysact.com/hc/en-us/article_attachments/202904610/Fix_Queued_Pledge.png)

If you still can\'t find a missing pledge after working through these
questions please contact our support team who will investigate further.
If at all possible please let us know the name of the fundraiser who
took the pledge, any known donor details and the approximate time and
date the pledge was made.
