# NAB Transact

Documentation for this gateway can be found here
<https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hRWz4wCV3V2mPYJBZA3YU52MpS2Zujj5/view?usp=sharing>.
The URL [used when testing in stating is
[https://demo.transact.nab.com.au/xmlapi/payment](https://demo.transact.nab.com.au/xmlapi/payment){tabindex="-1"
target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}]{.tracker_markup}

NOT ENABLED FOR THE CALL CENTRE AS YET

**Tokens**

Tokens can be set to a few different formats:

[1) no custom token, just a random 20 character hexadecimal string;\
2) prefix custom followed by an hexadecimal string to make it at most 20
characters long;\
3) HRI prefix followed by an auto-incremented global sequence padded to
7 positions;]{.tracker_markup}

 

[In the campaign setup page, they\'ll appear like this:
]{.tracker_markup}

-   [Enable NAB Transact Custom token
    format]{#campaign_payment_gateway_config_nab_custom_token_input}

    Enable this feature to send a custom format to NAB Transact when
    tokenising a PAN. Only useful by Appco Australia. See the following
    two configurable options to determine which one of the three
    possible token formats you want to use. The custom tokens can either
    be 1) random hex string \| 2) HRI prefix format with padded number
    sequence \| 3) Prefix followed by random string.

-   [Enable NAB Transact Custom HRI token
    format]{#campaign_payment_gateway_config_nab_custom_hri_token_input}

    Enable this feature to send a custom format to NAB Transact when
    tokenising a PAN using the HRI prefixed format. The format will be
    PREFIXnnnnnnn where n is a digit from a sequence (padded to 7
    positions). Only useful by Appco Australia. A prefix is REQUIRED
    when selection this option.

-   [Prefix for NAB Transact Custom token
    format\*]{#campaign_payment_gateway_config_nab_custom_token_prefix_input}

    When the NAB custom token is enabled, use this prefix to generate a
    custom CRN. The format will be PREFIXxxxxxxxxx where x is random
    string to fill in to 20 spaces in total (incl. prefix). Important:
    If the checkbox for the HRI custom format is selected, this prefix
    will be used and a number (padded to 7 positions) will be appended
    to this prefix (careful with trailing whitespaces, as space is a
    valid character for the prefix). If this field is empty and the NAB
    custom token format is enabled, a random 20 hex characters string
    will be used. The prefix should not be more than 10 characters. The
    characters 0-9, A-Z, a-z, space, &, -, period are allowed
