# SMS & Messaging

SMS templates are now located in Evergiving
<https://manage.evergiving.com/en-AU/notification-templates/sms> and we
now have the traditional welcome SMS, plus SMS for leads and donors post
signup. See
<https://blog.evergiving.com/send-intelligent-sms-messages-based-on-donor-attributes-3c54fce254b9>

# **Creating a SMS template in Evergiving**

To create a template you need the following information:

::: {.row ._2ojKlEpy4bByUcwUWCiSv4}
<div>

**Template Name:** a unique name for the template\

::: {.col-sm-8 ._13w1MP-uIJKo9Qi1XpmDLF .undefined}
::: _12dIHZzXxXY2YaY5DLKIcD
<div>

**Status:** Active or Inactive.\

::: {.col-sm-8 ._13w1MP-uIJKo9Qi1XpmDLF .undefined}
::: _12dIHZzXxXY2YaY5DLKIcD
::: {._30AFK_KTw_Hl_0XPGF6oZ3 .gradientBg}
::: {.Select ._3MLZ7nEbb90c--TOniTNfn .hidden-xs .Select--single .is-searchable .has-value}
<div>

::: Select-input
**Campaign:** Select the campaign the SMS is to be associated with\
:::

::: {.col-sm-8 ._13w1MP-uIJKo9Qi1XpmDLF .undefined}
::: _12dIHZzXxXY2YaY5DLKIcD
::: {._30AFK_KTw_Hl_0XPGF6oZ3 .gradientBg}
::: {.Select ._3MLZ7nEbb90c--TOniTNfn .hidden-xs .Select--single .is-searchable}
<div>

::: Select-input
**Conditions:** Leave blank if the SMS is to be sent to all donors or
enter a condition.
:::

::: Select-input
**SMS Copy:** Enter text and merge fields.
:::

::: Select-input
**Trigger:** choose from
:::

-   Welcome SMS - sent automatically after any pledge capture, can also
    be sent manually during face to face pledge capture
-   Welcome SMS - sent automatically after pledge capture only -
    {{PLEDGE_ID}} is allowed
-   Donor Comms - sent manually via phone console
-   Digital Comms - Fundraisers - allows fundraisers to send a digital
    form for the campaign they\'re assigned to that day

# **Cost**

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
Single part Welcome SMS are free. A single part SMS includes approx. 160
regular characters in the GSM-7 character set or 70 characters of text
that contains a unicode character in it. A longer or multipart SMS are
multiples of 153 characters for regular text and 67 for unicode text.\
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
Single part Photo SMS are free. Maximum character length \< 100
characters after {FIRST_NAME} is replaced. If the message after
replacement is \> 100 characters it will be truncated.\
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
All other SMS will be charged per the pricing table at
[www.evergiving.com/pricing](https://www.evergiving.com/pricing/){target="_blank"
rel="noopener"}. If an SMS template is longer than single part, the cost
of sending the other parts of the SMS will be changed to the customer\'s
account.\
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
Slight exceptions from the above is if the SMS is pushed into a longer
message :\
a) If the template is GSM characters only and \~70 characters long, the
First name contains an accent/unicode character and pushes the final SMS
into two unicode segments\
-\> substitute accented characters for non-accented version, e.g. `í`
-\> `i`, `Ç` -\> `C`, etc; when no substitution available use a `?` or
`.` character.\
b) long first name entered, longer than the placeholder length that
pushes the SMS into two segments - e.g. \"Maria de los Angeles\"\
-\> truncate the final message to 160/70 characters
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

# **Merge Fields**  {#merge-fields ._3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG}

  ------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------
  **FIELD**                                  **DETAILS**                                                                                                                                                     **COMPONENT**           **EXAMPLE OUTPUT**
  {{FIRST_NAME}}                             Donor first name                                                                                                                                                First name              John
  `{{FIRST_NAME_FLATTENED}}`{.notranslate}   Donor\'s first name with no accents. á is replaced with a, í is replaced with i, ú is replaced with u. é is part of the GSM7 character set so isn\'t replaced                            
  {{PLEDGE_ID}}                              Waysact Pledge ID - Only available on SMS sent after sign-up                                                                                                    Pledge ID               1220392
  {{FUNDRAISER_FIRST}}                       Fundraiser first name                                                                                                                                           Fundraiser first name   Tom
  {{AMOUNT}}                                 Donation amount - Only available on SMS sent after the sign-up                                                                                                  Amount                  \$30
  {{FUNDRAISER_CODE}}                        Fundraiser Code                                                                                                                                                                          
  {{FUNDRAISER_ID}}                          Fundraiser ID                                                                                                                                                                            
  {{PER_CAMPAIGN_SERIAL_NUMBER_FORMATTED}}   Only available on SMS sent after the sign-up. See https://github.com/waysact/evergiving/issues/6983                                                                                     
  {{PER_CAMPAIGN_SERIAL_NUMBER}}             Only available on SMS sent after the sign-up. See https://github.com/waysact/evergiving/issues/6983                                                                                     
  {{DIGITAL_FORM_URL}}                       Sends digital form URL for the campaign assigned to the fundraiser\'s team                                                                                                              
  Custom Fields                              `{{CUSTOM_1}}`{.notranslate}, `{{CUSTOM_2}}`{.notranslate}, `{{CUSTOM_3}}`{.notranslate}, `{{CUSTOM_4}}`{.notranslate} or `{{CUSTOM_5}}`{.notranslate}                                  
  Custom Input                               {{CUSTOM_TAG}} eg if tag is COMMS then merge field would be {{CUSTOM_COMMS}}                                                                                                            
  ------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------

 

# **Sender IDs** {#sender-ids ._3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG}

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
A Sender ID allows us to send SMS to donors from a name, rather than a
mobile number and can be up to 11 characters long. It can contain no
spaces or special characters but can be capital or lower case or a
combination of both. The Sender ID is entered in the Campaigns section
of Evergiving - hover over the campaign and then select General
Settings.
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
Sender ID is not supported in all countries - see the full list below
sourced from this page
[https://support.twilio.com/hc/en-us/articles/223133767-International-support-for-Alphanumeric-Sender-ID](https://support.twilio.com/hc/en-us/articles/223133767-International-support-for-Alphanumeric-Sender-ID){rel="nofollow"}.
For locales that don\'t support the Apha Sender ID, we will need to use
the *Automatic (welcome) SMS from Number \'*+16364421948\'.\
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

# **Delivery Messages**

Twilio Delivery Messages here
[https://support.twilio.com/hc/en-us/articles/223134347-What-do-the-SMS-statuses-mean-](https://support.twilio.com/hc/en-us/articles/223134347-What-do-the-SMS-statuses-mean-){rel="nofollow"}

-   accepted: When you specify the \"MessagingServiceSid\" parameter in
    the API request, accepted will be the first status Twilio returns,
    indicating that Twilio accepts the request and will soon determine
    the optimal \'From\' phone number for the message.
-   queued: For messages initiated with the \"MessagingServiceSid\"
    parameter, queued is the status Twilio returns when a phone number
    is allocated. Messages without the use of Messaging Service are
    created with a status of queued, indicating your request to send a
    message was successful and the message is queued to be sent out.
-   sending: A short time later Twilio starts the process of dispatching
    your message to the nearest upstream carrier in the SMS network.
-   sent: Once the nearest upstream carrier has accepted the message for
    delivery to the SMS network, the status is updated to sent.
-   delivered: Twilio has received confirmation of message delivery from
    the upstream carrier, and, where available, the destination handset.
    The status is updated to delivered
-   received: All inbound messages will have this status, indicating the
    message was received by one of your Twilio numbers.

Although the above represents a common message flow, other Status values
are possible:

-   failed : The upstream provider did not accept the message and hence
    delivery fails.
-   undelivered : Twilio has received a delivery receipt indicating that
    the message was not delivered. This can happen for a number of
    reasons including carrier content filtering, availability of the
    destination handset, etc.

Note that Twilio charges you for the attempt of delivery. This means
that if a message has a Status of sent, delivered, or even undelivered,
you will be charged for the message. On the other hand, if a message is
marked as failed (which in most cases indicates that the upstream
provider did not accept the message at all), you will not be charged.

 

[**WhatsApp**]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}

Evergiving can now send your leads transactional messages on WhatsApp.
The transactional message can be tailored to each campaign, and are sent
with the consent of the recipient as part of the phone call by an agent
.

There are a few things you need to do to get it working for your
charity.

You will need a Facebook Business Manager ID to enable sending messages
to Whatsapp. Many Charities already have a business account on Facebook
--- your social media manager or IT team may already have a login. If
you don't already have a login, here's how you create a business account
for your Charity on Facebook:

1.  [Go to
    [business.facebook.com/create](http://business.facebook.com/create){.cl
    .hr rel="noopener"} and select Create Account. You'll be creating an
    account for your Charity.]{#3454}
2.  [Enter your name and confirm your identity with Facebook login
    credentials.]{#a64a}
3.  [Follow the prompts to create your business account.]{#7834}
4.  ['Your business and account name' will be the name of your
    Charity.]{#7d8e}
5.  [Enter your name and your work email address, eg Jane Doe,
    jane@mycharity.org]{#029e}
6.  [Fill out your Charity's address]{#cbde}
7.  [Submit]{#e020}

Steps to find your business ID:

1.  [Login to Facebook with the same account that you logged into to
    create your Business Account]{#5dab}
2.  [Go to [Business
    settings](https://www.facebook.com/micro_site/url/?click_from_context_menu=true&country=AU&destination=https%3A%2F%2Fbusiness.facebook.com%2Fsettings&event_type=click&last_nav_impression_id=0G9aCvTzun4uwRh8P&max_percent_page_viewed=49&max_viewport_height_px=932&max_viewport_width_px=1527&orig_http_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F&orig_request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Fhelp%2F1181250022022158%3Fid%3D180505742745347&primary_cmsid=1181250022022158&primary_content_locale=en_GB&region=apac&scrolled=true&session_id=1TG3sCOGTD8Zvklhx&site=fb4b&extra_data%5Bview_type%5D=v3_initial_view&extra_data%5Bsite_section%5D=help&extra_data%5Bplacement%5D=%2Fbusiness%2Fhelp%2F1181250022022158){.cl
    .hr rel="noopener"}.]{#4474}
3.  [Click Business info on the left hand side.]{#446b}
4.  [Below Business Manager info, you'll see your ID number.]{#d9c2}

When you have this ID, you can contact us at
s[upport@evergiving.com](mailto:Support@evergiving.com){.cl .hr
rel="noopener"} and we'll work with you to get this service implemented.
You\'ll need to fill out the form found
<https://blog.evergiving.com/send-messages-to-call-center-leads-on-whatsapp-with-evergiving-5dfabfa15302>

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
[]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
[**Facebook**]{.wysiwyg-font-size-large}
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
<https://blog.evergiving.com/connect-evergiving-to-your-facebook-page-58d3ba547a8d>
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
You can deploy a fully functional Messenger experience within a few
minutes. Your Agents will be able to chat with visitors to your Page in
Evergiving; and easily turn them in to leads to speak to them on the
phone --- right there and then.

**1.** **Connect your Facebook page to a Campaign in Evergiving.**

Head to Campaigns \> General Settings \> Connect a Facebook Page. Make
sure you're logged in to Facebook as a page Admin and click 'Continue
with Facebook'

**2. Create macros for agents**

When a Call Center Agent uses the phone number macro in a message reply,
it instructs facebook to provide the user a quick button to send the
agent the phone number from their facebook account.

All the Facebook user does is click to send the number. Evergiving will
automatically detect the phone number and create a lead.

**3. Open the lead and click to call**

The Agent can click to call the donor live. During the call the donor
can securely provide their credit card details (on their telephone
keypad) and make a one off or recurring donation.

<figure class="ho hp hq hr hs ht cy cz paragraph-image">
<div class="cy cz im">
<div class="hu s er ih">
<div class="in hw s">
<div class="ic id t u v ie aj bl if ig">

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</figure>
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

::: _3kit3svJyjQcunaMUDxaKG
:::

</div>
:::
:::
:::
:::

</div>
:::
:::
:::
:::

</div>
:::
:::

</div>
:::
