# Users

Only the Administrator can see the Users tab, set up Manager and
Logistics users and view, edit and delete users from this screen.

The Users tab has information about the name and contact details for all
of the users set up on your account. It also lists the type of user each
person is (manager, fundraiser etc).

There are several different user types, and each has different
permissions and roles:

**Administrator:** The Administrator account is created by Waysact for
you and has the rights to make changes across Users and Campaigns - only
the Administrator can see the Users tab and set up Manager and Logistics
users.

**Campaign Manager:** Sometimes known as Coach or Field Manager, a
Campaign Manager is a frontline manager that is responsible for a number
of teams but may also be set up as a Fundraiser in the system. The
results from teams that are set up under a Campaign Manager user are
automatically aggregated and recorded against their statistics. The
Campaign Manager has a campaign \'Dashboard\' with powerful reporting
facilities that provide specific details about these campaign
statistics.

**Fundraiser:** Sometimes known as Frontliner, Fundraiser or Advocate; a
Fundraiser recruits Pledges using the form for the campaign they have
been set up on. The Fundraiser has a personal \'Dashboard\' where they
can access the form on the front end, pledge history logs and the
leaderboard, but they cannot see the overall campaign statistics that
the Campaign Manager can.

**Team Leader:** A Team Leader is the Fundraiser selected to be the
leader of the team that day. The team will inherit their name so the
performance of a Team Leader's teams may be viewed over time.

**Manager:** A Manager is a user in the system that also has access to
the Pledges administration tab so that they are able to administer
pledges and export data. They are not able to access the front end form
or delete pledges, create/edit other management users or manage
children.

**Logistics:** Logistics is a user that has the same access as a Manager
but can not save any changes to pledges or export data. They can view
the Dashboard, Campaign Manager, Campaign Statistics, Fundraiser and
Team pages, and can add/edit/retire fundraisers, campaign managers and
set up teams. They can also see all the results. This makes it a useful
user profile for a junior administrator as their ability to make changes
is restricted.

**Client**: A Client User is only able to access the Dashboard page and
can be additionally restricted to a single campaign.

 
